NARRATOR
On their way to Shalour City
for Ash's next Gym battle
our Heroes meet
Gym Leader Korrina
and her partner Lucario.
Korrina agreed to let
our heroes accompany her
to Geosenge Town to witness
Lucario's Mega Evolution.
Now, they've arrived in town
to search for the Mega Stone
known as Lucarionite.
So, that's Geosenge Town.
Ah! We're here, Dedenne!
[AMAZED]
What a cute town!
So, we're supposed to find
the Mega Stone here, right?
'Korrina?'
‐ Finally..
‐ What's wrong?
‐ Are you alright?
‐ Finally, I'm here.
Yay!
‐ Whoa!
‐ Oh, wow!
Yup! We did it!
We're in Geosenge Town, Lucario!
We won a hundred battles
in a row.
Now, it's time.
Time for you to Mega Evolve.
‐ Okay, let's go!
‐ Hey!
Hold on, Korrina.
PIKACHU
[FRANTIC]
♪ I wanna be the very best ♪
♪ Like no one ever was ♪
♪ To catch them
is my real test ♪
♪ To train them is my cause ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ I know it's my destiny ♪
♪ Yeah you're my best friend ♪
♪ In a world we must defend ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH
"The Cave of Trials!"
Korrina, I know you're here
for Lucarionite
but do you know
where to find it?
Not a clue.
But, if you don't know
where it is
how are you going
to look for it?
Grandfather told me
that if we came to
Geosenge Town,
we'd figure it out.
And my grandfather's
really smart!
Figure it out? Oh!
I guess Ash and Korrina
are the types
who like to just jump
into things.
That's why you two get along.
Ah! Look at all these
beautiful stones!
CLEMONT
I guess lots of stores here
sell Evolution stones.
BONNIE
I want one! I want one!
I just got me a Sun Stone!
Come out, Helioptile!
'Evolve.'
[EVOLVING]
[PROUD]
‐ Alright!
‐ Helioptile evolved.
Awesome!
Hey, Clemont.
How did your Helioptile evolve?
I evolved Helioptile
into Heliolisk
with a Sun Stone as well.
Oh, yeah. Ash, I was wondering,
isn't Pikachu gonna evolve?
Evolve? You see, Pikachu doesn't
actually wanna evolve.
Right?
Wow. Okay.
Now, let's hurry and find
that Lucarionite super quick!
I suggest we all split up
and search every store in town.
Right!
OWNER #1
Sorry, but I'm afraid not.
KORRINA
Are you serious?
OWNER #2
Nah, never heard of it!
CLEMONT
Really?
OWNER #3
No. I'm very sorry.
ASH
Hmm.
OWNER #4
Perhaps, one of these
might interest
you instead.
Hey, Clemont,
did you have any luck?
CLEMONT
I'm afraid not.
Every single shop owner
I spoke to said
they had never even
heard of Lucarionite.
Hold on!
My grandfather told me that
we'd find the Lucarionite
right here in this town!
Well, I suppose
that unless Lucarionite
was very difficult to find,
we would have heard about
the Mega Evolution
of lots of Lucario.
‐ Um‐hm.
‐ So, that means..
I'd say it must be
a very rare stone.
It seems awfully hard to find.
So, then how do we continue
our search?
Now, I remember
what grandfather told me.
GURKINN
'Now, listen, Korrina.'
When the time comes
you will understand
what you need.
And then, you'll both be ready
for Lucario's Mega Evolution.
Hmm.
It's not going to be easy.
That's part
of your training, too.
That's right.
We can't lose heart now!
What's right for me.
Finding it by ourselves will
make Mega Evolution possible!
‐ That's the spirit!
‐ Sure is.
Too early to give up.
[ENCOURAGING]
But, we've still
gotta figure out
what we're gonna do.
[DAUNTED]
‐ 'Excuse me, young lady.'
‐ Huh?
The name's McGinty.
I'm a photographer.
How about I take
a picture of you all?
As a souvenir photo?
It's what I do, and I know
you'll be very happy with it.
Souvenir photo? Oh, boy!
[HAPPY]
That's a great idea.
Since, we're all here together
then we'll have a nice picture
as a memento.
You think so?
Let's go for it
and take a group photo.
Why not?
[EXCITED]
Alright,
we're in Geosenge Town
and I wanna show grandfather
that we made it all the way!
Okay, line up over there.
BONNIE
Okay!
Now, squeeze in
just a wee bit more.
[chuckles]
Huh? Hey, come on, Clemont.
Don't you know how to smile?
I am smiling.
Okay, give me some big smiles,
everyone!
[chuckles]
I got it! Now, we'll print
this up right away.
‐ Please make it quick, okay?
‐ Um‐hm.
Do you, by any chance,
know anything about
locating Evolution Stones?
Evolution Stones are out there.
In a cave that's hidden inside
of that mountain.
Wow, a mountain cave?
And, sir, do you know anything
about Lucarionite?
I need to find it right away!
Lucarionite, eh?
I don't think I've ever heard
of that before.
Oh! Thank you.
Although, I do remember hearing
about a cave where it's possible
to locate a special kind
of Evolution Stone.
‐ You mean it?
‐ Please tell us where it is!
BONNIE
Where, where, where?
If you go even farther
into the mountain
than the cave
I already told you about
you'll find a small entrance
to another cave.
'That's where it is.'
That might be
just what were looking for.
Maybe. Let's check
it out, Korrina!
Um‐hm.
You know, it's said that
terrible things can happen
to people who are not worthy
enough to enter.
‐ Huh? Terrible things?
‐ Or an adventure.
MCGINTY
I can't tell you for sure.
But there's some evidence
that terrible things
really do happen there.
And that's why the people
from this town
never, ever venture
into that cave!
‐ Whoa!
‐ I think you must be wrong.
'It can't be a cave
that's as scary as all that!'
You're wrong!
I know this is it.
Just you wait, Lucarionite.
I gonna find you in a flash!
Come on, let's go!
But, wait!
You forgot your photos
not quite ready yet.
Oh, guess you're right.
Well, isn't that interesting?
If we can get to that cave first
we'll be able to lay claim
to the Mega Stone first!
And pinch Pikachu
in the process!
Another rung on the ladder
to success!
And, we'll be praised
by the Boss, no less!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
[chuckles]
Here. Your picture's all done!
ASH
'Wow! Ha ha!'
'It looks awesome!
Thanks a lot.'
PIKACHU
[EXCITED]
Thanks.
What a great souvenir!
‐ I can keep it forever!
‐ Yup.
I can't wait to show it
to my grandfather.
Don't you think
he'll just love it?
[AGREEMENT]
Hmm.
‐ 'Serena, we're going!'
‐ Huh?
[chuckles]
Right.
It worked out just as
we planned, didn't it, Gurkinn?
JESSIE
Okay.
Bring them a little more
to the center.
[Meowth grunting]
MEOWTH
How's that?
JESSIE
It's perfect!
Those clueless Twerps
will never know
there's a cave
lurking back there!
Now, they'll do
what they always do.
They'll take the wrong way,
of course.
And while they run around
like wackos
we'll be in the cave.
Mega Stone, ho!
And when,
they finally do show up
'we'll swoop down on them
like flying types!'
'Catching Pikachu will finally
be on our resume.'
[all cheering]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
KORRINA
So, this is where they mine
Evolution Stones.
I can't wait to get
a closer look.
We'd better concentrate
on Lucarionite, first.
Yes, you're right.
Didn't Mr. McGinty say
there was a cave
located even farther back?
Farther back, right?
Come on, let's go!
[panting]
Slow down, Korrina.
[CONCERNED]
Oh, please,
there's nothing scary in here.
What a silly thing to say.
"Terrible things can happen
to people who aren't worthy."
‐ Dumb.
‐ A real "Duh."
'I can guarantee that
Lucarionite is just waiting'
'quietly to be found
and cared for by Team Rocket.'
[STARTLED]
JESSIE
'Huh? What, Wobbuffet?'
[FRANTIC]
MEOWTH
'Hey!'
'It looks like
some sort of a doorway!'
And it's begging for us
to open it.
So, let's.
[all gasping]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Blaziken!
[PROUD]
Hmm! That was a dead end.
Wonder if we went the wrong way.
I thought we were just
supposed to go straight ahead.
CLEMONT
It's possible, we may have
missed a turn, or something.
No, I wanna find that cave!
I wanna find that Lucarionite
right now!
[STARTLED]
What is it, Lucario?
ASH
What's up?
PIKACHU
[CONCERNED]
[POWER‐UP PUNCH MOVE]
‐ Look at that!
‐ There's a pathway in there.
CLEMONT
It's no wonder we didn't see it.
BONNIE
Maybe someone hid it on purpose.
Whatever, I say the thing
that really counts
‐ is Lucario found it.
‐ Yup. Great, Lucario!
[FOCUSED]
[STARTLED]
Feel something?
I wonder what Lucario's
sensing this time.
Danger, maybe?
‐ Hard to say.
‐ Lucario?
‐ Huh?
‐ Look, it's a cave!
‐ We found it!
KORRINA
Lucario, you're amazing!
How did you know?
Lucario must've sensed
the Lucarionite.
I've got it! It's got to be
somewhere inside this cave.
‐ Huh!
‐ Like grandfather said.
He told me Lucario and I would
find the Lucarionite together.
That's it, right?
ASH
Amazing.
CLEMONT
Yes, but we won't know for sure
unless we go in
and find out, right?
‐ Okay, let's go!
‐ Yeah!
SERENA
But, it's pitch black in there.
In that case,
I say, "Clemontic Gear, on!"
ASH
'Way to go, Clemont!'
[Team Rocket screaming]
Uh‐oh!
What was that sound?
‐ What's in there?
‐ A g‐ghost?
BONNIE
Don't be silly!
[screams]
‐ Why does this happen to me?
‐ Or me?
[screaming]
JESSIE/JAMES/MEOWTH
Were blasting off again!
[EXASPERATED]
SERENA
'Was that..'
CLEMONT
Team Rocket?
[EXASPERATED]
They must've snuck in
ahead of us?
They're so sneaky!
[ANNOYED]
The Lucarionite!
Huh, Lucario?
I think there's something
back there.
So what? We can't just run away.
We've gotta get
the Lucarionite, now!
[DETERMINED]
We're right behind you,
Korrina.
It could be dangerous.
Keep close.
Uh‐huh. Ah!
Protect us, okay, Pikachu?
[CONFIDENT]
SERENA
Something's growling back there.
CLEMONT
I'm sure it's just the wind.
[all gasping]
ASH
'What's that?'
[gasping]
Hmm.
[gasps]
[SHOCKED]
KORRINA
'Lucarionite!'
Check it out!
[AMAZED]
‐ Is it really?
‐ It's beautiful!
KORRINA
I knew it.
CLEMONT
It's like the Lucarionite
was calling out to Lucario!
Great! Now, Lucario will be
able to Mega Evolve!
Let's go, quick!
[DETERMINED]
[ANGRY]
What's that?
[DETERMINED]/[ATTACKING]
Are you okay, Lucario?
‐ What was all that?
‐ Hold on.
POKEDEX
Blaziken. The Blaze Pokémon.
'Blaziken leaves
its opponents charred'
'with its fiery punches.'
CLEMONT
'What's a Blaziken doing here?'
'Maybe Blaziken threw
Team Rocket out of the cave!'
Help! I'm scared!
Is it mad?
I see, if we want
the Lucarionite
first, we're going to
have to defeat
Blaziken in a Pokémon battle!
[FOCUSED]
KORRINA
I think you should stand back.
This is the last hurdle,
before Lucario can Mega Evolve.
I hear you.
Good luck, Korrina.
[ENCOURAGING]
Thanks, but there's no way
we're gonna lose now.
Hello, Blaziken.
My name's Korrina.
'I challenge you
for the Lucarionite'
'so Lucario can Mega Evolve!'
Battle begin!
Lucario, Power‐Up Punch!
[POWER‐UP PUNCH MOVE]
‐ There's their first attack!
‐ Yay!
[DETERMINED]
[ATTACKING]
[PAINED]/[STRUGGLING]
Lucario!
[DETERMINED]/[ATTACKING]
Lucario, dodge it!
[ATTACKING]
[DETERMINED]/[EXERTION]
‐ Lucario!
‐ Blaziken moves so fast!
It sure is one tough opponent!
Use Metal Sound!
[FOCUSED]/[METAL SOUND MOVE]
[PAINED]
Mm‐hm.
[DETERMINED]
Yes! Awesome!
[IMPRESSED]
Watch out.
[FLAMETHROWER MOVE]
Lucario!
[PAINED]
What a Flamethrower.
I know. Blaziken's a Fire
and Fighting‐type.
'It's not a good matchup!'
'And along with
Blaziken's speed'
so strong.
You're right.
KORRINA
Lucario!
[ATTACKING]
[screams]
[grunts]
[PAINED]/[STRUGGLING]
[DETERMINED]/[EXERTION]
[PAINED]
Oh, no! I can't watch!
'We have to stop this.'
‐ 'We can't!'
‐ Why not?
Korrina said
this was her battle.
'We've gotta stay out of it.'
ASH
Isn't that true?
You won't give up, right?
Ash gets it.
He totally understands.
That's right.
We'll never give up.
No matter who we're
up against in battle
we'll never turn
and run the other way!
Right, Lucario?
[STRUGGLING]
‐ Please! Get up!
‐ You can do it!
‐ Lucario!
‐ Yeah. Get up!
ASH
'Come on!'
[ENCOURAGING]
[STRUGGLING]
[DETERMINED]
[SHOCKED]
[CONFIDENT]
‐ Alright!
‐ Lucario, Power‐Up Punch, go!
[POWER‐UP PUNCH MOVE]
[PAINED]
[DETERMINED]
[ATTACKING]
[POWER‐UP PUNCH MOVE]
Alright! Way to go!
[SHOCKED]
[ATTACKING]
Awesome!
Blaziken can't move,
so speed wont help it now.
We're almost done!
Lucario, let's finish this up!
[ATTACKING]
GURKINN
'Enough!'
[SHOCKED]
You have won.
‐ Hi, Korrina.
‐ Grandfather?
ASH/SERENA/BONNIE/CLEMONT
That's your grandfather?
Yes. They call me
the Mega Evolution Guru.
I'm Gurkinn.
Mega Evolution Guru?
[SURPRISED]
And he's Korrina's grandfather,
as well?
So, what is he doing
here anyway?
You battled nobly, Blaziken.
‐ You may return.
‐ What's going on?
Does all of this mean that
Blaziken is your Pokémon,
grandfather?
‐ That's right.
‐ But why all of this?
I knew that you would complete
your training
and make it here successfully.
So, I thought I'd give you
this final trial myself.
'And you overcame it
beautifully'
as I knew you would.
You passed this final test
with flying colors!
Well done, Korrina dear.
And, you as well, Lucario.
Grandfather!
Now, go forth
and take what you've earned.
[chuckles]
We've finally got
the Lucarionite!
[THRILLED]
‐ 'Mr. McGinty!'
‐ Hmm?
[EXCITED]
We came back!
Well, it's nice to see you.
Did you find
what you were looking for?
‐ Yup, we sure did.
‐ Wonderful!
Sorry, Mr. McGinty.
You took such
a nice photo of us
but I'm afraid
mine got burnt up.
I see.
Well then, we'll just have
to print you out another one.
Really? Thanks a lot!
Say, it looks like it went well.
Your granddaughter really is
something special.
She's my granddaughter.
Of course, she is.
[all gasping]
Wait. Do you know
Korrina's grandfather?
Actually, he asked me
to help you out in your quest
to locate the Lucarionite.
That's right.
So you knew from the beginning?
[SHOCKED]
Ha‐ha‐ha! Sorry, kids.
CLEMONT
Then, what's up with that story
about something terrible
happening in the cave?
‐ I made it up.
‐ Made it up?
[all groans]
If someone unworthy
of the Mega Stone
had gone inside the cave
Blaziken would have
driven them off.
So, it wasn't a total lie.
Huh, like Team Rocket.
[chuckles]
‐ Now, Korrina.
‐ Yeah?
As proof that
you overcame your trial
the Lucarionite is yours.
‐ I'm giving it to you.
‐ Thanks.
Good for you! Lucario, too.
[EXCITED]
‐ Wonderful.
‐ It sure is.
Congratulations!
You're so nice. Thank you.
[PROUD]
GURKINN
Okay, Korrina.
Are you ready?
KORRINA
Ready, grandfather!
[FOCUSED]
Here we go, Lucario!
Now, Lucario!
Mega Evolve!
We'll finally get to see
another Mega Evolution!
I can't wait!
NARRATOR After overcoming
many obstacles
and winning a hard‐fought
battle against Blaziken
Korrina has finally
obtained Lucarionite.
Soon, Lucario's Mega
Evolution will be revealed
as the journey
continues!
[theme music]